In today's lecture we're going to be creating a stone brick patter.
So let's go ahead and get started.
So the first thing I want to do is I want to use my ruler to divide my paper up into each individual
brick.
So I'm just going to go ahead and lay down my ruler like so an underscore to draw lines across like
this.
And I'm just going to do about eyeball the same distance for each one so them come down about the same
distance.
Not too worried about it being perfect because in this study we're just trying to understand texture
through highlights and values.
Great.
Then go ahead and I'm going to draw off the ends of these so I have a box to draw within.
So something like that should be good.
So we're going to be Creedon or break with in here.
Now the next thing to know is that when you're creating texture it's very important to look at reference
so you can go google and search for whatever type of reference you want and then look at that reference
and study the way it works.
Look at where the highlights are and where the shadows are.
Because overall that's what's going to make your texture.
So looking at some reference of some brick the first thing I noticed is that it's broken up to individual
brick.
So you start adding those lines in like so.
So I know where each individual break is the next thing I'm noticing is that then some bricks are really
random.
So I notice that there's some square bricks like so.
And I also notice that none of the lines ever line up with another line.
So they're always broken up like so.
None of my add in another one are there and then another one here.
I'll try another square one right there and then I'll have another piece right there.
And then I'm going to start calling this pattern up here because I know that I won't line up with any
lines if I do that.
So for this one so I need to change that one up to a square.
All right.
Perfect.
So now I have my way out for my Breck's the next thing I'm noticing is that the space in between each
brick is darker than the brick itself.
So now what I can do is I can go ahead and Durkan in those areas like so so I can start getting a base
value for all of my bricks in the space between
her grunt.
The next thing I'm noticing is that each brick has different values so some of them are lighter and
some of them aren't or someone to go ahead and break these bricks up into three different values.
A darker value a mid value and a lighter value which will leave what.
So going to go ahead and start with my darkest de-value and I'll just start to sketch in that value
onto some random bricks shimmer and Durka value on this one too and maybe a darker one right here and
I'll just continue to do this all the way down
then I'll go ahead and fill in my lighter value on some of these so I'll add in the lighter value one
right here.
Well I've going in right there and I might even add in a second one right next to it because we want
this to be random as possible.
All right.
Great.
So now we have the basic layout for our brick texture.
Next thing we need to do is we need to start going in there with some real detail and some real highlight
and shadows.
So to switch over to a more sharpened pencil and what I want to do first is I want to start adding in
my shadow coming from my break.
So each one of these breaks are sitting within their own space and they're pushed out a little bit further
than the space in between them.
So that's causing a shadow underneath each one.
So the shadow kind of looks like.
So it's a cat shadow that's being cast underneath each one of my Rex and then I'm noticing that the
light appears to be coming more from this direction.
I to go ahead and add in shadow on that side and then I want to go ahead and slowly fade that in.
So it's not such a hard line.
And then I'm going to go ahead and do that to all of my bricks.
All right.
So now I've added in all of those cast shadows underneath my bricks.
And on the left side of each brick the next thing I want to do is I want to start adding in some texturing
detail in there which is going to be some dark shadows.
And then after that I can go ahead and add in my midtown and then I can leave out all my highlights
and that will really make it pop.
So let's go ahead and get started with that.
So the first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to start drawing in some of the texture I see in my
reference.
And so it's just very sort of random sheeps in the brick.
Now a lot of these bricks were made by hand or put into really crude molds.
And so there's going to be a lot of Textron which is really nice for what we're trying to do.
Great so now we finished all of that dark shadow and texture.
The next thing we want to do is we want to add another layer of shadow onto each one of these bricks.
But what we want to do is we want to leave out the space underneath each one of these for highlight.
We also want to leave out the top edge on this break for highlight because since the light is coming
from this angle it's going to be getting hit with the light on that side.
So let's go ahead and do that.
Let me show you what I mean before we get started.
So basically we want to go ahead and add in a midtown shadow like so all the way up to the dark texture
we have here.
But then on this underside we want to leave out a good space for a highlight like so let's try another.
So we bring the shadow right up to the edge of our dark texture and then we're going to leave out a
space underneath that for a white highlight.
Do the same thing for this one.
And then let's not forget to leave a white highlight on the top of this brick.
So we'll go ahead and fill right up to this line about there.
We can even add a little bit darker of an edge right there.
Same underneath each one of these highlights that where they stand out just a little bit more.
All right.
So now that really gives us some more three dimensional looks to our fabric.
Let's go ahead and apply this to all of our Broks.
All right.
Great.
So now we just added in that mid-tone and also added in our highlight underneath each one of these holes.
And on the top of our Rick now the last thing I want to do to finish this off is add a little bit more
random random texture in there.
So it doesn't look so bland because right now it looks really fake.
So the way we're going to fix it is just by adding some random texturing and by having dot circles all
kinds of different things in their lines.
But that's just going to help break it up.
So it looks more realistic and has a lot more texture to it.
Or out great.
That brings us to the end of this lecture.
So in this lecture we learn how to create a realistic brick texture for our drawings.
So just remember that you want to make sure that you use reference when you're creating texture and
also remember that there are three parts to your texture.
There is the core Chateau the mid-tone shadow and you highlight so incorporate these three values and
you will always get a realistic looking texture if you do.
Thanks for watching this lecture and I look forward to seeing you in the next one where we're going
to create some wood texture.